okay so introducing Gro 3 we have two
new modes deep search and think so yeah
think is the reasoning model deep search
is probably what we have seen from both
open Ai and Google with the Deep
research probably something similar
we're going to try out both of those
also let me show you a few things we're
going to test today so I'm just going to
quickly switch over to that and then we
come back to grock 3 and see what this
model can do so these are the tests I
want to run today on grock 3 the first
one is going to be a coding test we have
done a version of this before it's a PDF
PFD PDF Source extraction app where we
can put in a PDF extract all the URLs
and kind of follow those Down The Rabbit
Hole uh you will see this soon uh but
today I want to add a challenge and that
is going to be to add like a visual node
spider web so we can follow this in like
a visual style too where we connect all
the sources uh or URLs to different
papers next I want to try the Deep sick
feature whoops API pricing recent event
tests deep search deep research uh we're
going to compare uh Gro 3's deep search
with perplexities deep research see that
how that goes if we get access to the
reasoning model or the think feature
we're going to try it out Al some couple
of puzzles we have here modified River
Crossing puzzle you would see that when
we get to it if I don't get access to
this uh think feature in time before I
want to publish this video we just going
to test it out on the the base model and
maybe come back to that so yeah let's
head over to GRS grock 3 on x and yeah
do a few tests on this okay so let's try
it so let's click here and you can see
we can now probably just refresh this I
think and we are on the grock Tre beta
okay perfect okay so it says down here
uh our new feature deep search and think
will hit your interface soon stay tuned
okay so we're probably going to wait for
that uh but that means that we can start
with the
coding uh so let's try that without the
thinking part so here's what we're going
to do we're going to write an app that
can run in my browser with the following
features uh upload a PDF and extract all
the URL sources found in this PDF in a
nice structured list if I click the URL
to a source download this Source extract
all the URLs from this and display this
in a nested list so I can continue down
this Rabbit Hole of nested links and we
going to do a second challenge that is
going to from this PDF create kind of a
spider web of sources of URLs and we
want to display this in like a topical
map with nodes so uh I'm just going to
copy this uh let's go here paste this in
and let's run
it okay so that was pretty quick I got
to say I don't know if it's pretty fast
that's kind of my first
impression super
quick um um to use this okay so we need
a server yeah that's probably correct
okay interesting
interesting uh all right so yeah I'm
just going to copy this python code and
HTML code and let's head over to cursor
and let's paste it in here right in it's
HTML okay so let me upload this and find
a PDF we can test okay so let's open up
a PDF here yeah that looks pretty good
uh let's try this paper
right okay good that seems to work
pretty good so you can see we have some
other links to other papers what if we
click on this
now okay so we couldn't fetch that one
that's fine so we need probably some way
to download this uh that was pretty much
what I expected so let's try to fix that
write a new code with uh a server to
work uh around of course something like
this let's try that so what I'm noticing
as it is pretty quick okay so you want
to do a node server here we have some
package.json
server.js okay uh so I'm going to try to
set this up and see if our Simple app
will work now and yeah first impression
this looks pretty good okay so we set
everything up we install this so let's
do mpm start and open this in three
times ,000 mm start
3,000 okay good guess we open two let's
pick our file
now and here's the moment so let's try
to download this PDF yes that worked so
now you can see we nested all the
resources here uh I guess we can't close
it let's try this
one okay here we have some open
AI uh okay so yeah I think that looks
pretty good we found all the resources
uh yeah pretty good uh next step is
going to be the next part of the
challenge and that is going to
be to from uh this thing create a spider
web how resources are linked together
display this in a topical map with nodes
of each
source so I'm going to try to form this
prompt here and see if we can create
kind of a visual representation of all
these nested links right so let's just
try great that worked now let's expand
our app from a PDF we upload craw all
the URLs and create a spider web of how
sources URLs linked together and display
this in a topical map with nodes of each
source so this is going to be the
challenge I haven't tried this before so
okay we need to open this uh yeah that's
fine so I'm going to
follow the instructions here here we get
again I kind of like the speed I think
that feels pretty good okay so I'm going
to implement this and let's try it out
and see if we can get this to work okay
so I updated the IM
index.html uh let's open up our host
again uh okay so we can see we have this
yeah box here let's find our
paper yeah that works right cool so now
we can kind of zoom in I guess there are
some UI work to do here but you can see
we have this uh different nodes here we
can click on
them uh okay so what happens if I click
on this now okay so we get a new node
yeah this is exactly what I wanted
because you can see the agent PDF points
to this
node and this uh node points to all the
links in this so if we click on
something else here let's click on yeah
I don't know let's just try something
this one okay so this one points to this
one yes this is exactly what I wanted so
this is kind of a topical map you can
follow along with all of the nodes here
right where they point so yeah I got to
say good job on this think is pretty
cool and a pretty smooth integration so
so far uh I've been pretty impressed by
the um coding here uh it's not the most
challenging thing but you have to get
everything right and yeah we kind of one
shot of this so so far so good after
waiting a few hours we now have access
to the Deep search feature uh and as you
can see we still don't have access to
the tink feature as I thought they
called it uh but let's try the Deep
search feature and we can compare it to
perplexity deep uh research
there's a lot of names here on this deep
search so I just have a few points I
want to try uh the first thing is going
to be find and list the API prices for
open AI 3 mini deeps R1 clo 3.5 and
Gemini 2.0 flash so let's just grab this
this is something I think it's helpful
okay so let's sure make sure we put this
on right and click on
this uh okay so this is a pretty inter
in UI you can see we have the sources
here uh we kind of go
through researching so it's browsing
open AI for o okay and we have some kind
of comments that didn't work maybe it's
not
accessible we are
searching all right pretty
interesting uh got to say kind of like
this UI it looks pretty good so we're
going to run the same query on um on
perplexity after to compared the two
results I
think and we can see down here we kind
of have the sources so we have 87 web
pages uh as sources now okay pretty
interesting okay we have completed uh do
we get the answer down here now open AI
1.10 440 that's correct deeps 55 to19
that's correct 315 that's correct Gemini
flash where did that go
I don't think this is correct I don't
think so let me quickly double check
that now as you can see it's much
cheaper than that it's like 10 in for
text and0 4 out so that was wrong but he
got three out of four correct okay
that's fine I guess we have some
citations here and yeah let me check
this that was a bit strange because we
got the
correct yeah that was a bit strange
what price is
this Gemini 2 flash huh okay yeah that
was a bit strange uh other than that
yeah looks pretty good let's run the
same on perplexity okay so I ran it
through here here you can kind of see
the query uh this was very slow do we
get any information how long it took I
think it took about 5 minutes 50 45
sources uh sadly we ended up
with uh yeah we got two out of uh four
correct so open a I3 mini was horrible
200 million output that was yeah bad uh
it got deeps R1 correct it got clawed
correct but it didn't answer
flash so yeah I got to kind of give this
to Gro even though it didn't perform
perfect either it got three out of four
and perplexity got two out of four uh
let's do one more query here on the
research uh thing let's do how do Gro
three rank on the llm benchmarks
compared to deep seek R1 and 03 mini let
me grab that put that in here and send
that uh let's do the same here new tread
deep
research and yeah least let see uh what
we get back here uh first impression is
that grock 3 is pretty
quick uh at least compared to deep
research you can see it's a bit slower
uh but I think for these deep research
models doesn't matter too much because
they are not a quick lookup you just
want to focus on getting a good answer
right so I don't think that's a deal
breaker the most important part is that
the answer is as close
to as close to the correct answer as
possible so let's see uh the results
here okay so Gro is already finished so
it says Gro 3 ranks highest among deeps
r103 mini on General
benchmarks chatbot Arena lead board okay
uh O3 mini performs better while ranks
lower overall okay yeah kind of
inconclusive here okay so we didn't get
like a good conclusion here it's just
yeah uh O3 mini beats them in IM but if
you look at uh here you can say I24 here
you can see Gro 3 is a b uh deeps R1 and
O3 mini so yeah I think it got a bit
confused here I guess the only thing
that was correct was the chatbot Arena
leaderboard I saw somewhere that was on
top of that and deeps is still looking
here so we're just going to let that
finish okay so I've been waiting around
10 minutes here now 15 minutes and yeah
do look like we get an answer here from
uh perplexity so I just think we have to
call it so yeah not so good results on
this one if you ask me but uh at least
we got something here from Gro 3 I guess
okay so there been a lot of hours since
I first tested it since I got access and
I still don't have the thing feature
kind of wanted to publish this video
today so basically you're going to have
to skip that but let's try to run my my
altered River Crossing puzzle anyway
that was going to be the reasoning test
so the prompt we're going to run is the
following is a famous puzzle a man and a
goat are on one side of the river
there's a wolf and cabbage on the other
side the man has a boat the man wants to
get the goat to the other side of the
river how does he do that give a final
answer with a confidence score so the
idea behind this prompt is that uh this
has a lot of training data because this
is a famous puzzle and the famous puzzle
is a bit different you have to sh all
the Cabbage wolf and the man over in
like different alternate states to get
this complete but here we I kind of
changed it up so let's see if the model
can kind of break from the training data
that is the ID and solve this with the
information it has here so we had some
fun with this on my other model test so
it's basically a reasoning model or a
test time compute model test well let's
just try it here on Gro 3 and see what
kind of answer we get
so okay so it goes into this uh uh let's
break this down step by step
right uh the puzzle States one side of
river BL blah BL okay initially man side
a man go wolf cabbage
good uh okay that satisfies the goal
dust a straight forward solution the man
uses the boat to get the gooss final
answer the man gets into the boat with a
the goat and Rose across the river to
the other side delivering the goat there
95% perfect yeah that is the correct
answer so yeah pretty good uh we have
tried this on some other models before
and it didn't kind of solve it uh let's
spin up a couple of other models to see
kind of how this Compares now uh we can
do grock through first grock through gr
grock 2 and see what this says okay so
here you can see it falls into the
traper going into the previous data
because uh you can see it
situation uh it says here the man can
successfully transport a goat to The
Other Side by making three trips as
described above now it has to says T
third trip or three trips and I wrong
right because he can just take the the
goat on the other side right uh he
doesn't have to do multiple trips so the
man takes the Cabbage across to the
other side now the goat is alone yeah so
he goes into this typical trap here and
grock 2 does not answer this correctly
but grock 3 does so that's at least good
uh let's spin up some open AI models and
try this out so let's start on GPT 40
yeah this Falls in straight into the
Trap right uh it says goes back so it
five steps the man successfully gets the
goat On The Other Side by first
seconding across performing a sequence
of trips so this Falls straight into the
Trap by look looking too much at the
training data and don't re kind of
consider what we are asking for here so
let's spin this up on 03 mini High
hopefully 03 mini solves this but let's
see final answer the Man simply puts the
goat into his boat roves across the
other side 100% perfect so yeah I kind
of noticed here in the reasoning that uh
this puzzle might be tricking me by
asking more complicated solution well
all that needed is for man just to take
the goat across it seems straightforward
but hm yeah uh so yeah it kind of got to
the perfect answer at the end here so
that was good at least uh but again we
saw that grock 3 could solve this pretty
easy even without the the thinking step
so yeah I guess that's pretty good and
yeah a shame we couldn't test out the
thinking part but uh other than that
yeah I think it was pretty pretty good
okay so that was basically all we had
today because we kind of tried out
everything I guess we skipped my
previous test since we don't have the
thinking features uh since we also don't
have the API I don't think uh we have
any update on live bench I kind of like
to look a bit at uh the live bench
coding average here and compare because
yeah I don't put too much effort or
thought about benchmarks anymore uh I
Saw The Benchmark results on Reddit or X
and they look pretty good for grock 3
and I saw Andre Cary put up a x post let
me see if I find it yeah he wrote a long
post here you can see I was giv Early
Access making me think uh one of the
first few uh who could try the quick wi
Shack who can run a quick wibe Shack so
his summary was like uh quick WIP check
two hours this morning uh feel somewhere
on the state of the art territory about
open AI strongest model 03 Pro 200 a
month so and slightly better and deeps
R1 and Gemini 2 flash2 Thinking yeah
that's pretty good I'm pretty impressed
by that uh shame I didn't get to try it
out but I'm definitely going to do that
later so yeah pretty positive results I
would say for Gro 3 uh at least getting
like uh some good words here from Andre
car party he's kind of the one of my
trusted resources when it comes to llms
and it's going to be fun to see when we
get the API what we can do with gr 3 so
yeah here's here's kind of his uh SVG of
a pelic and riding a bicycle that was
pretty funny so yeah kind of looking
forward to getting my hands on the API
other than that first
impressions uh we don't can't we can't
use it on gro.com yet but first
impressions uh pretty quick seems kind
of okay want to try out the tin feature
more than that so definitely go check it
out and you need a premium plus so I
would just wait until they have some
free models available soon and I guess
maybe I don't know EX exactly if you
need premium plus to try it out but uh
yeah look out for it uh so far I'm
pretty positive about this looks pretty
interesting so I'm going to maybe do
another video on it when we get access
to the API so yeah hope you learned
something hope it was pretty cool and
thank you for tuning in and we speak
soon